Major-changes: Document the switch to OCI for updates (#698)
coreos/fedora-coreos-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/major-changes.adoc

// To add a new change here, see the template at the end of the file.

== Switch to OCI updates

Starting in Fedora 42, Fedora CoreOS will be updating through OCI images instead of the OSTree repo.
Fedora Change request: https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/CoreOSOstree2OCIUpdates
More discussion: https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-tracker/issues/1823

=== Planning

This change has been introduced first in new disk images for the `next` stream, as part of the Fedora 42 rebase.
The `testing` and `next` streams will follow when they rebase to Fedora 42.
After a few releases we will migrate existing machines through a barrier release.

|===
|Update Stream |Release date

> |`next` 42.20250316.1.0 | 2025-03-18

Reviewer: Nit:

> `next` | 42.20250316.1.0 (2025-03-18)

See the previous ones below.

// To add a new change here, see the template at the end of the file.

== Switch to OCI updates

Starting in Fedora 42, Fedora CoreOS will be updating through OCI images instead of the
OSTree repo.
Fedora Change request: https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/CoreOSOstree2OCIUpdates
More discussion: https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-tracker/issues/1823

=== Planning

> This change has been introduced first in bootimages for the testing stream, for the Fedora 42 rebase. After a few releases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change will be introduced first in new disk images for the testing stream, as part of the rebase to Fedora 42. After a few releases
```

Author: reworded so next stream is in past tense and testing and stable will follow

we will migrate existing machines through a barrier release.

|===
|Update Stream |Targeted release date

> |`next` | 2025-02-04

Reviewer: Those dates may change so let's write the condition (first release on F42) here instead. We'll update the page once we have the exact releases.

|`testing`| 2025-04-22
|`stable`| Will follow `testing` as usual
|===

=== Notes

Currently, Fedora CoreOS hosts pull updates from the OSTree repository.
With this change, the hosts will pull updates from the Quay.io container registry instead.

> This is a transparent change, except for proxied environnements, as the nodes will reach to a different address for updates.

Reviewer: We claim that it's transparent and then mention exceptions. Let's say that it should be transparent but the following points may require attention: proxy configuration, etc.

Author: reworded

> Note: Disk images will be updated first, so new installations of F42 based Fedora CoreOS will use OCI images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Disk images will be updated first, so new installations of Fedora CoreOS based on Fedora 41 will use OCI images.
```

After a few releases, we will migrate existing nodes.

This change is only scoped to switching to OCI as the transport for Fedora CoreOS content.

> While derivation of these Fedora CoreOS images is possible with containers builds and use bootc, this comes with limitations: 

Author: I am thinking of dropping the bootc mention altogether

> While derivation of these Fedora CoreOS images is possible with containers builds and use bootc, this comes with limitations: 

Reviewer: I think we should link to a tracker issue with those notes instead of adding them in the docs here.

> While derivation of these Fedora CoreOS images is possible with containers builds and use bootc, this comes with limitations: 

Reviewer: We probably should link to the general Bootable Contrainers  roadmap tracking issue

// To add a new change here, see the template at the end of the file.

== Switch to OCI updates

> Starting in Fedora 42, Fedora CoreOS will be updating through OCI images instead of the

Reviewer: Nit: Formatting: One sentence per line in asciidoc.

OSTree repo.
Fedora Change request: https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/CoreOSOstree2OCIUpdates
More discussion: https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-tracker/issues/1823

=== Planning

> This change has been introduced first in new disk images for the next stream, as part of the Fedora 42 rebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change has been introduced first in new disk images for the `next` stream, as part of the Fedora 42 rebase.
```

or italic (I think it's the convention here)

> Testing and next stream will follow when they rebase to Fedora 42.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`testing` and `next` stream will follow when they rebase to Fedora 42.
```

After a few releases we will migrate existing machines through a barrier release.

|===
|Update Stream |Release date

> |`next` | 2025-03-18

Reviewer: If we have the exact release ID we should add it here
